# File Transfer App

The File Transfer App is a simple PyQt5-based graphical user interface (GUI) application that allows you to transfer files from a local directory to a remote directory on a Raspberry Pi or other SSH-enabled device. This README provides step-by-step instructions on how to use and set up the application.

## Prerequisites

Before using the File Transfer App, make sure you have the following prerequisites installed on your system:

- Python 3.x (https://www.python.org/downloads/)
- pip (Python package manager, typically included with Python)
- PyQt5 (GUI framework)
- paramiko (SSH library)
- PyInstaller (for generating the standalone executable)

## Installation

1. Clone this repository or download the `file_transfer_app.py` script to your local machine.

2. Install the required Python packages by running the following command:

   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt```

## Setting up Retro Pi for SSH Connections

To transfer files to your Retro Pi using the File Transfer App, you need to ensure that SSH is enabled on your Raspberry Pi. Here are the steps to set up your Retro Pi to accept SSH connections:

### 1. Access Retro Pi Configuration Menu

1. Ensure your Raspberry Pi is connected to your network and powered on.

2. On the Retro Pi interface, navigate to the `RetroPie` menu.

3. Scroll down and select `Raspi-Config` from the list of options. This will open the Raspberry Pi Configuration menu.

### 2. Enable SSH

1. In the Raspberry Pi Configuration menu, navigate to `Interfacing Options`.

2. Scroll down to `SSH` and select it.

3. You'll be asked whether you want to enable SSH. Choose `Yes`.

4. Confirm the change and exit the configuration menu.

### 3. Find Your Raspberry Pi's IP Address

You'll need to know the IP address of your Raspberry Pi to connect to it over SSH. You can find this information using the following steps:

1. On the Retro Pi interface, navigate to the `RetroPie` menu.

2. Scroll down and select `Show IP Address`. This will display the IP address of your Raspberry Pi on the screen.

### 4. Connect via SSH

Now that SSH is enabled and you have the IP address, you can use the File Transfer App to transfer files to your Retro Pi. In the File Transfer App:

- Enter the IP address of your Retro Pi in the `remote_ip` variable in the code (as mentioned in the "Changing SSH Credentials" section of this README).

- Ensure that you've set the correct `remote_username` and `remote_password` in the code.

- Specify the remote directory on your Retro Pi where you want to transfer the files by modifying the `self.remote_dir` variable in the code.

### Finding Your Default Username and Password

By default, the Retro Pi operating system for Raspberry Pi uses the following username and password:

- Username: `pi`
- Password: `raspberry`

Please note that for security reasons, it's recommended to change the default password after initial setup.

### Adding a New User for SSH Access

If you want to create a new user for SSH access with different credentials, you can use the following command on your Raspberry Pi:

```bash
sudo adduser your_new_username
```

Follow the prompts to set a password and provide additional information for the new user. Make sure to remember the username and password you set for the new user.

With SSH enabled, the proper credentials configured in the File Transfer App, and optionally, a new user created for SSH access, you can easily transfer ROMs and files to your Retro Pi for an enhanced gaming experience.



## Configuration
### Changing SSH Credentials and Remote Directory

1. Open the `file_transfer_app.py` script in a text editor.

2. Locate the following lines in the code:

   ```python
   # SSH configuration (change these values)
   remote_ip = 'your_raspberry_pi_ip'
   remote_username = 'your_username'
   remote_password = 'your_password'

   # Remote directory on Raspberry Pi (change this value)
   self.remote_dir = "/path/to/hardcoded/remote/directory"
   ```

3. Replace 'your_raspberry_pi_ip', 'your_username', and 'your_password' with your actual SSH credentials.

4. Modify the self.remote_dir variable to specify the remote directory on your Raspberry Pi where you want to transfer the files. Make sure to provide the full path

## Generating the Executable

To generate a standalone executable from the script, you can use PyInstaller. Make sure you have PyInstaller installed (as mentioned in the prerequisites).

Run the following command in your terminal from the directory containing file_transfer_app.py:
    ```pyinstaller --onefile file_transfer_app.py```

This command packages the Python script into a standalone executable file.

## Usage
1. Run the executable file generated by PyInstaller or execute the Python script using the following command:
    ```python file_transfer_app.py```

2. The application will open, and you can interact with it using the provided GUI.

3. Use the "Open Local Directory" button to select a local directory containing files you want to transfer.

4. Select one or more files from the local directory using the listbox and click the "Add Files to Queue" button to add them to the transfer queue.

5. Click the "Send Files" button to initiate the transfer of files in the queue to the remote directory specified in the code.

6. The application will provide feedback on the transfer progress.

7. To close the application, you can click the close button (X) in the window title bar.

## License
This project is licensed under the MIT License.
